Idaho code
74-204 to permits public agencies like
the West Bonner County School District
to hold emergency meetings under certain
conditions
the statutes
requires public agencies to the state
at the outset of the meeting the reason
for the meeting
this statement fulfills that requirement
pursuant to the statute of our board
policy 1500
the West Bonner County School District
does have reasonable costs to hold an
emergency meeting due to a likelihood of
financial loss especially in light of
the letter sent to the district on
August 16th by the State Board of
Education which on multiple occasions
in
intimated and explicitly stated that
without timely response the district
would likely experience significant
financial loss
given the gravity of the situation and
the deadline set forth by the State
Board of Education and emergency exists
in which necessitates this meeting
has a volunteer board which requires the
Council of both our legal representation
and our superintendent and other staff
it was in Practical practicable to meet
the notice requirements in this
emergency situation although it should
be noted we tried to do so anyway and
we're only 15 minutes short of the 24
hours further delaying this meeting to
another day in order to meet the notice
requirement would have also increased
the likelihood of financial loss due to
the inability of the board to properly
direct staff and legal counsel to
respond to the State Board of Education
as required by the deadline imposed upon
us
with that would stand for the
presidential regions
of America and to the Republic for which
it stands one nation under God
indivisible with liberty and Injustice
For All
I need a motion to amend the agenda and
emergency meeting via roll call vote
foreign
to amend the agenda meeting
first you have a second most second and
I have a statement before you call for a
roll call vote
um
I understand what you said in terms of
the emergency meeting but I do want to I
do want to make this statement that the
we had the state board of education
letter in hand deadline known for almost
a week and we could have scheduled this
meeting up front I don't think we needed
to wait till everybody was ready we we
know that we needed to have a planning
meeting and I realized that it was we
created our own emergency
okay we have a first and second
trustee Hall here
Steve Martin here
a chairman Rutledge here
okay
I need a motion to bring to the table
declare an emergency pursuant to Idaho
code 33-203 and Associate matters
foreign
Trustees of West Bonner County School
District do now declare an emergency
pursuant to the Idaho code 33 1203 and
said emergency shall be in whole force
in effect from August 31st of 2023 until
June 30th of 2024. such emergency
declaration shall be provided to the
Idaho State Board of Education and also
added as an addendum to the
superintendent Durst contract upon the
signatures of the chairman and the
superintendent
thank you
I have a first do I have a second I'll
second there okay I need that Rewritten
it I need that read again because we did
not receive it up front and obviously
Vice chair Brown had it beforehand so I
do want to know I need to have that read
over again more slowly sure
I move that the Board of Trustees of the
West Bonner County School District do
now declare an emergency pursuant to
Idaho code 33 1203 and said emergency
shall be in whole force and effect from
August 31st of 2023 until June 30th of
2024.
such emergency declaration shall be
provided to the Idaho State Board of
Education and shall excuse me and also
added as an addendum to superintendent
Durst contract upon the signatures of
the chairman and the superintendent
I make a motion to amend that amend that
motion that motion should include
besides the change in the addendum from
June 31st to
July or June 31st through excuse me
August 30 August 31st through June 30th
2024 as an addendum to his contract
a correction does need to be made to his
contract because it was the addendum
because it was not correctly under
termination of employment contract Item
B it was not it was not appropriately
corrected other qualifying designations
was just was agreed to be dis Struck
from that language and it continues to
be an item B so that addend if there's
an addendum to his contract that needs
to be also done
I have a first all second thought
Amendment
all those in favor of the amendment
please say aye
aye
aye all is imposed
nay nay
okay
I would call for a vote on my initial
motion okay all those in favor of the
motion can I read the motion please
all is in favor of the motion of the um
declaring emergency pursuant of Idaho
code
33-1203 and said emergency Shelby and
whole force and a an effect from August
31st 2023 until June 30th 2024 an
emergency shall be provided by the uh
Idaho's Board of Education also added to
the addendum to superintendent Durst
contract upon the signatures of the
chairman and superintendent all of them
favor say aye
aye aye
before that goes through I'm going to go
ahead and say that I am abstaining
because unfortunately this meeting did
not give us 24 hours notice this is an
emergency meeting but doesn't qualify
under the emergency
Idaho code 74-204
and so I will be abstaining from this
because this all should be null and void
the motion carries
a nice
I did not vote
I will say no to the matter okay
so I have the motion still carries
next I need a motion
I need a motion directing superintendent
Durst to apply for an emergency
provisional certificate to serve as West
Bonner County's superintendent and
Associated matters
Mr chairman I make a motion I move that
the Board of Trustees of West Monroe
County School District do now instruct
and otherwise compel superintendent
nurse to apply to the Idaho State Board
of Education with the aid of legal
District Council for an emergency
provisional certificate for the purpose
of serving as West Monroe County School
District superintendent for the
2023-2024 school year by a date no later
than August 31st of 2023 and further
move that upon submission of this
application then any provisionals
related to the certification of the
superintendent's agreement shall be no
void and hereby fulfilled in its
entirety
okay I have a first do I have a second
one second great discussion I will ask
um Vice chair um Brown to read that once
again please for the record
yes Miss Mahal I move that the Board of
Trustees of West Bonner County School
District do now instruct and otherwise
compel superintendent nurse to apply to
the Idaho State Board of Education with
the aid of District legal counsel
foreign emergency provisional
certificate for the purpose of serving
as West Bonner County School District
superintendent for the
2023-2024 school year by a date no later
than August 31st of 2023 and further
move that upon submission of this
application that any provisions related
to the certification of the
superintendent's agreement shall be no
void and hereby fulfilled by in its
intent excuse me fulfilled in its
entirety so please explain any provision
that last phrase would you
for clarification any Vice chair Brown
please read the last sentence again any
provision what will become null and void
and like a copy of your um you know what
you're reading I think it's
inappropriate that the board has other
board members has not seen what you're
actually reading in terms of the um
there's no comment point of order
point of order
um I I still my question still stands if
Vice chair Brown will still read that
last statement
um the any starting with any provision
that any provision related to the
certification in the superintendent's
agreement shall be null void and hereby
fulfold in its entirety I think it's
pretty self-explanatory so it's for
clarification then is that is that
striking the addendum is that striking
other designated qualifications is that
changing Item B on the addendum
an item based States
the board shall retain the option to
immediately terminate this contract
should enter superintendent be required
by Idaho code to
to obtain and maintain an Idaho
superintendent certification or
provisional certification incorrectly it
also States other qualifying designation
because if you look at our recording at
that date and time on June 28th it was
struck which allows him to conduct the
duties of superintendent as per Idaho
code law throughout the term of this
agreement provided that the provisional
certification or provided that
superintendent is not in the process of
attaining and maintaining shuts request
requisite Idaho's superintendent
certification or provisional
certification and it and should have
been struck or other qualifying
designations so I need clarification if
that's what you're referring to
that is correct
okay and it wasn't ever I I will go note
for the record that the original
addendum was not properly conducted
inside it was not properly corrected and
signed by the chair and Mr Durst
and that our contract the three day and
the the contract starting July 31st or
July 1st 2023 those motions were not
correctly made either none of those
contracts were clearly made motioned at
that time at the June 28th meeting
okay
we have a first and the second all those
in favor
of the motion
that the Board of Trustees of West
Burnett County School District do now
instruct and otherwise compel
superintendent Durst to apply
to the Idaho State Board of Education
with the aid of District legal counsel
for an emergency provisional certificate
for the purpose of serving as West
Bonner County School District
superintendent for the
2023-2024 school gear
by date no later than August 31st 2023
and further move that upon submission of
the application that any provision
related to the certification in the
superintendent's agreement shall be null
and void and hereby fulfilled in its
interiority all those in favor say aye
aye aye
aye
nay
and again I'm going to abstain because
we didn't have enough notice and nothing
is should be
um nothing should happen today this
whole meeting should be known void
thank you
um
okay the motion carries
next I need a motion
directing superintendent Durst to reply
to the August 16 2023 Idaho state board
of education letter
Mr chairman I move that the Board of
Trustees of West Bonner County School
District do now instruct and otherwise
compel superintendent Durst to respond
in writing to the State Board of
Education by August 23 of 2020 excuse me
to the issues presented in the district
or to The District in the State Board of
education's letter dated August 16th of
2023 and report back to the board with
the response at our next meeting
okay I have a first do I have a second
grab a second I need clarifications I do
not think I think before that letter
goes in tomorrow that the full board
should see a copy of it of that response
it should not wait until our next
meeting I do not want to abdicate my
role as board member to superintendent
or Mr Durst to apply to the State Board
of Education it should be from the board
the State Board of Education sent that
letter to us
I second thought and agree
did you make a motion I'm I would amend
that motion that that that led the
what is our response to the State Board
of Education needs to be reviewed by the
full board before it goes in and the the
signature on that needs to be that of
the chair not Mr Durst
I
so can we expect that we'll see that
before it goes in tomorrow
is my understanding okay
promotion to adjourn
did you did you vote
I'll make a motion to adjourn
ing meeting a jerk
thank you